README.md, before:

## Cloudflare provider for octoDNS

An [octoDNS](https://github.com/octodns/octodns/) provider that targets [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/dns/).

### Installation

#### Command line

```
pip install octodns-cloudflare
```

#### requirements.txt/setup.py

Pinning specific versions or SHAs is recommended to avoid unplanned upgrades.

##### Versions

```
# Start with the latest versions and don't just copy what's here
octodns==0.9.14
octodns-cloudflare==0.0.1
```

##### SHAs

```
# Start with the latest/specific versions and don't just copy what's here
-e git+https://git@github.com/octodns/octodns.git@9da19749e28f68407a1c246dfdf65663cdc1c422#egg=octodns
-e git+https://git@github.com/octodns/octodns-cloudflare.git@ec9661f8b335241ae4746eea467a8509205e6a30#egg=octodns_cloudflare
```

### Configuration

```yaml
providers:
  cloudflare:
    class: octodns_cloudflare.CloudflareProvider
    # The api key (required)
    # Your Cloudflare account email address (required, optional if using token)
    email: env/CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL
    token: env/CLOUDFLARE_TOKEN
    # Optional. Filter by account ID in environments where a token has access
    # across more than the permitted number of accounts allowed by Cloudflare.
    account_id: env/CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID
    # Import CDN enabled records as CNAME to {}.cdn.cloudflare.net. Records
    # ending at .cdn.cloudflare.net. will be ignored when this provider is
    # not used as the source and the cdn option is enabled.
    #
    # See: https://support.cloudflare.com/hc/en-us/articles/115000830351
    #cdn: false
    # Manage Page Rules (URLFWD) records
    # pagerules: true
    # Optional. Default: 4. Number of times to retry if a 429 response
    # is received.
    #retry_count: 4
    # Optional. Default: 300. Number of seconds to wait before retrying.
    #retry_period: 300
    # Optional. Default: 50. Number of zones per page.
    #zones_per_page: 50
    # Optional. Default: 100. Number of dns records per page.
    #records_per_page: 100
```

Note: The "proxied" flag of "A", "AAAA" and "CNAME" records can be managed via the YAML provider like so:

```yaml
name:
    octodns:
        cloudflare:
            proxied: true
    ttl: 120
    type: A
    value: 1.2.3.4
```

### Support Information

#### Records

CloudflareProvider supports A, AAAA, ALIAS, CAA, CNAME, LOC, MX, NAPTR, NS, PTR, SPF, SRV, SSHFP, TXT, and URLFWD. There are restrictions on CAA tag support.

#### Root NS Records

CloudflareProvider does not supports root NS record management. They can partially be managed in the API, errors are thrown if you include the Cloudflare name servers in the values, but the system completely ignores the values set and serves up its own regardless.

#### Dynamic

CloudflareProvider does not support dynamic records.

### Developement

See the [/script/](/script/) directory for some tools to help with the development process. They generally follow the [Script to rule them all](https://github.com/github/scripts-to-rule-them-all) pattern. Most useful is `./script/bootstrap` which will create a venv and install both the runtime and development related requirements. It will also hook up a pre-commit hook that covers most of what's run by CI.

Commit message:

Add API Token required permissions documentation (#49)

README.md, after:

## Cloudflare provider for octoDNS

An [octoDNS](https://github.com/octodns/octodns/) provider that targets [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/dns/).

### Installation

#### Command line

```
pip install octodns-cloudflare
```

#### requirements.txt/setup.py

Pinning specific versions or SHAs is recommended to avoid unplanned upgrades.

##### Versions

```
# Start with the latest versions and don't just copy what's here
octodns==0.9.14
octodns-cloudflare==0.0.1
```

##### SHAs

```
# Start with the latest/specific versions and don't just copy what's here
-e git+https://git@github.com/octodns/octodns.git@9da19749e28f68407a1c246dfdf65663cdc1c422#egg=octodns
-e git+https://git@github.com/octodns/octodns-cloudflare.git@ec9661f8b335241ae4746eea467a8509205e6a30#egg=octodns_cloudflare
```

### Configuration

```yaml
providers:
  cloudflare:
    class: octodns_cloudflare.CloudflareProvider
    # Your Cloudflare account email address (required, optional if using token)
    email: env/CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL
    # The API Token or API Key.
    # Required permissions for API Tokens are Zone:Read, DNS:Read and DNS:Key.
    token: env/CLOUDFLARE_TOKEN
    # Optional. Filter by account ID in environments where a token has access
    # across more than the permitted number of accounts allowed by Cloudflare.
    account_id: env/CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID
    # Import CDN enabled records as CNAME to {}.cdn.cloudflare.net. Records
    # ending at .cdn.cloudflare.net. will be ignored when this provider is
    # not used as the source and the cdn option is enabled.
    #
    # See: https://support.cloudflare.com/hc/en-us/articles/115000830351
    #cdn: false
    # Manage Page Rules (URLFWD) records
    # pagerules: true
    # Optional. Default: 4. Number of times to retry if a 429 response
    # is received.
    #retry_count: 4
    # Optional. Default: 300. Number of seconds to wait before retrying.
    #retry_period: 300
    # Optional. Default: 50. Number of zones per page.
    #zones_per_page: 50
    # Optional. Default: 100. Number of dns records per page.
    #records_per_page: 100
```

Note: The "proxied" flag of "A", "AAAA" and "CNAME" records can be managed via the YAML provider like so:

```yaml
name:
    octodns:
        cloudflare:
            proxied: true
    ttl: 120
    type: A
    value: 1.2.3.4
```

### Support Information

#### Records

CloudflareProvider supports A, AAAA, ALIAS, CAA, CNAME, LOC, MX, NAPTR, NS, PTR, SPF, SRV, SSHFP, TXT, and URLFWD. There are restrictions on CAA tag support.

#### Root NS Records

CloudflareProvider does not supports root NS record management. They can partially be managed in the API, errors are thrown if you include the Cloudflare name servers in the values, but the system completely ignores the values set and serves up its own regardless.

#### Dynamic

CloudflareProvider does not support dynamic records.

#### Required API Token Permissions

Required Permissions for API Token are Zone:Read, DNS:Read, and DNS:Edit.

### Developement

See the [/script/](/script/) directory for some tools to help with the development process. They generally follow the [Script to rule them all](https://github.com/github/scripts-to-rule-them-all) pattern. Most useful is `./script/bootstrap` which will create a venv and install both the runtime and development related requirements. It will also hook up a pre-commit hook that covers most of what's run by CI.
